# Allow Remote Clients
Enable-PSRemoting -Force


Why Setting Up and Troubleshooting SPN and Kerberos Delegation is Complex
Multiple Components Involved:

Active Directory (AD), SPNs, Kerberos Delegation, and the Report Server all need to be correctly configured and synchronized. A misconfiguration in any of these components can cause authentication to fail.
SPNs must be unique and correctly registered for the service account, and constrained delegation requires careful configuration to ensure delegation works only for the required services.
Cross-System Dependencies:

The Report Server (e.g., SQL Server Reporting Services) typically accesses data on a different server (e.g., SQL Server), requiring correct delegation and SPNs across both systems.
Delegation depends on both Kerberos tickets and proper communication between AD, the client, and the servers.
Browser-Specific Behavior:

Different browsers handle Windows authentication differently. Internet Explorer (IE) tightly integrates with Windows authentication, making it more reliable for Kerberos.
Microsoft Edge may require additional settings (e.g., allowing automatic Windows credentials for intranet sites), causing potential failures if not configured correctly. Edge might default to NTLM instead of Kerberos, complicating troubleshooting.
Multiple Teams Involved:

AD/Identity Management Team: Responsible for managing service accounts, SPNs, and delegation in Active Directory.
Application Team: Manages the Report Server and its data sources, ensuring correct delegation between services.
Network/Infrastructure Team: Ensures proper DNS resolution for SPNs and that relevant ports for Kerberos (TCP/UDP 88) are open.
End-User Support/Helpdesk: Handles browser configurations and troubleshooting for different environments, like Edge vs. IE.
Current Gaps in Expertise and Troubleshooting:

No other teams currently have expertise in troubleshooting Kerberos delegation, SPN issues, or browser-related authentication failures. This limits the ability to quickly resolve these issues.
Experts who set up SPNs and Kerberos delegation have no visibility into the configuration of Microsoft Edge, further complicating troubleshooting. Without visibility into how Edge is configured for authentication, it is hard to determine if issues are browser-specific or related to SPN/Kerberos misconfigurations.
There is no backward-compatible virtual desktop or environment available for users or support teams to verify whether the issue is related to the network, SPNs, Kerberos, delegation, or a browser-specific problem (e.g., browser change or misconfiguration).
Troubleshooting Challenges:

Kerberos errors can be subtle and hard to diagnose. Misconfigured SPNs, time sync issues, or network misconfigurations can all cause silent authentication failures.
Tools like setspn, klist, and Event Viewer logs are needed to identify where the problem lies, but the issue could span multiple systems, requiring coordination between teams.
Summary:
Setting up and troubleshooting SPN and Kerberos delegation is challenging because it requires configuring multiple systems and services to work together seamlessly. Browser-specific behaviors (e.g., differences between IE and Edge) add complexity. Currently, no other teams have expertise in troubleshooting these issues, and the experts who set up SPNs and Kerberos delegation have no visibility into Edge configuration, making it difficult to assess whether issues are browser-related or due to underlying Kerberos configurations. Additionally, the lack of a backward-compatible virtual desktop for users or resolvers makes it difficult to verify if issues are related to the network, SPNs, Kerberos delegation, browser settings, or a misconfiguration. As a result, diagnosing problems is time-consuming and often requires manual testing across multiple components without the appropriate fallback environment for verification.


Why This Makes the Edge Configuration Team Critical:
Key Gatekeepers: The Edge Configuration Team controls crucial aspects of how the browser interacts with Windows Authentication, SPNs, and delegation. Their role is essential for determining whether Edge is configured to handle Kerberos correctly.

Unique Insight: They are the only team with full visibility into Edge's configuration, meaning they are critical to narrowing down whether a problem stems from browser misconfiguration or a broader issue, such as SPNs or delegation.

Dependency for Other Teams: Without their involvement, other teams (such as those managing Kerberos, SPNs, or network configuration) will struggle to diagnose and resolve issues because they won’t have the insight into whether Edge’s configuration is contributing to or causing the problem.

Need for Backward Compatibility Testing: To streamline the troubleshooting process and ensure compatibility across browsers, it is essential that the Edge Configuration Team maintains a backward-compatible virtual desktop environment with Internet Explorer. This would allow for comprehensive testing and help confirm whether issues are browser-specific or relate to broader infrastructure settings like SPNs and Kerberos delegation.

Potential Bottlenecks: Without backward compatibility testing in place, the Edge Configuration Team risks indirectly becoming a blocker in the troubleshooting process, as unresolved browser-specific issues may prevent other teams from efficiently diagnosing and resolving authentication problems.

